Branding is important because not only is it what makes a memorable
impression on consumers but it allows your customers and clients to know
what to expect from your company. It is a way of distinguishing yourself
from the competitors and clarifying what it is you offer that makes you
the better choice. Your brand is built to be a true representation of
who you are as a business, and how you wish to be perceived.

There are many areas that are used to develop a brand including
advertising, customer service, social responsibility, reputation, and
visuals. All of these elements (and many more) work together to create
one unique and (hopefully) attention-grabbing profile.\[1\]

**What is branding?**

Branding has been around since 350 A.D and is derived from the word
"Brandr", meaning "to burn" in Ancient Norse language. By the 1500s, it
had come to mean the mark that ranchers burned on cattle to signify
ownership---a precursor of the modern logo Yet branding today is so much
more than just a look or a logo. It has come to signify the emotional
"gut feeling" reaction a company can elicit from its customers. Your
brand is the set of perceptions people have about your company. But
branding is the set of actions you take to cultivate that brand.In other
words, your brand is a noun, but branding is a verb. When you design a
logo, that's branding. When you develop your brand voice, that's
branding. When you get together with your marketing team to brainstorm
an ad campaign, that's branding. Any action you take to shape your brand
is, in a nutshell, branding.

**Branding is the perpetual process of identifying, creating, and
managing the cumulative assets and actions that shape the perception of
a brand in stakeholders' minds.**

![](.//media/image1.jpg){width="6.5in" height="3.0770833333333334in"}

**Why is branding so important?**

Branding is important because it:

-   **Helps you stand out from the competition.** It doesn't matter what
    > kind of company you have, what industry you're in, or what type of
    > customer you're after---if you're in business, you've got some
    > serious competition. Branding helps you establish the ways in
    > which you're different, special, and unique. And it shows your
    > customers why they should work with you instead of your
    > competitors. ![](.//media/image2.png){width="5.110416666666667in"
    > height="3.0208333333333335in"}

> *Branding is about making connections. Illustration
> by [Ulfvidh](https://99designs.com/profiles/ulfvidh).*

-   **Builds brand recognition.** If you want to build a successful
    brand, you need to be recognizable. The right branding (including
    designing an impactful logo, website, and other brand assets) helps
    you carve out a distinct style, and it increases your [brand
    recognition](https://99designs.com/blog/business/brand-recognition/) in
    the market.

-   **Creates a consistent brand experience for your customers.** In
    order for your business to succeed, you need to provide a consistent
    experience for your customers however they interact with your
    brand---whether that's through your website, at an in-person event
    or by following your social media accounts. Branding allows you to
    control how people perceive and experience your brand---and you can
    ensure that perception and experience stays consistent across all
    your brand touchstones.

-   **Sparks a connection with your audience and turns that audience
    into loyal customers.** The most successful businesses are the ones
    that foster an emotional connection with their audience. That
    emotional connection is what transforms a prospect into a customer
    and a customer into a brand enthusiast. And how do you create and
    build that connection? Branding. Different branding strategies (like
    packing an emotional punch with your brand voice or
    leveraging [color psychology when designing your
    logo](https://99designs.com/blog/tips/logo-color-meanings/)) can
    help you connect with your audience on a deeper level and create a
    sense of loyalty to your brand.

**What are the elements of branding?**

These are the elements of branding that you'll need to create in order
to cultivate how your business is perceived by customers:

**1.Mission statement and brand values**: Your mission statement and
brand values are the foundation for your branding. Think of your mission
as the brains of the operation---a short and succinct statement that
defines the present state and purpose of your organization. Meanwhile,
your company's vision is its heart, providing an inspirational and
motivational snapshot of what you seek to achieve in the long term.

**2.Brand guidelines:** With the mission and vision statement set as the
pillars of your organization, your brand strategy comes to encompass
everything in between. This will take the form of [brand
guidelines](https://99designs.com/blog/logo-branding/how-to-create-a-brand-style-guide/) (also
known as your "brand bible"). These guidelines are comprised into a
tangible document that will reflect and support your business goals,
differentiate you from competitors, resonate with customers, provide a
template for decision-making and precipitate ideas for future marketing
campaigns. It will also include all the stylistic elements of your
branding, including your color palette, fonts, and an outline of your
brand voice.

**3.Additional assets:** There's no one-size-fits-all approach to
branding. Depending on your business and industry, you might need
additional assets like business cards, product packaging or event
flyers. Assess your business and your unique needs, and then develop
additional branding assets accordingly.\[2\]

**A better brand means better marketing**

As a general rule, products have limited life cycles, but brands---if
managed well---last forever. And once you've nailed down exactly who you
are as a brand, it becomes much easier to market it.Your brand
guidelines, coupled with ongoing market research and analysis, should
give you a tactical advantage in determining the best way to market your
products. Do you focus on traditional marketing like radio and
billboard, or is your potential customer more swayed by viral Youtube
videos and Snapchat filters? Marketing can be a mix and match of
tactics, but be careful of spreading yourself too thin. By continually
consulting your brand guide, you should be able to focus your efforts on
the tactics that really matter. At the end, marketing is the process
that brings you the leads and sales, but branding is the foundation upon
which you build your reputation and customer loyalty. \[3\]

![](.//media/image3.jpg){width="6.5in" height="2.4375in"}

1-https://www.brandingmag.com/2015/10/14/what-is-branding-and-why-is-it-important-for-your-business/

2-<https://99designs.com/blog/logo-branding/what-is-branding/>

3-<https://www.thebrandingjournal.com/2015/10/what-is-branding-definition/>
